README.md, before:

# Reproducing Typewriter

This is a digital revival of Reproducing Typewriter, a "typewriter"
monospace typeface designed to be readable at smaller point sizes from
over a century ago.  You may have seen this typeface used in the
product manual that shipped with Turbo Pascal 3.0.

This is the first digitally available verison of Reproducing
Typewriter.  It is a clean and somewhat* accurate reproduction, not a
"grungy" typeface like Trixie.  It is intended to provide an
aesthetic, but above all it is meant to be used for some of your
everyday needs, not just novelty projects.

## Original and Coding Variants

Reproducing Typewriter comes in two font families:

**Reproducing Typewriter** is to a great extent the original typeface.

**Reproducing Typewriter Code** makes the following changes:

-   The digits `0` and `1` are modified for disambiguity with the
    capital `O` and small `l`.

-   The period, comma, and other selected punctuation marks are made
    larger for better visibility.
    
## What is Reproducing Typewriter
    
Reproducing Typewriter is one of many early 20th-century typefaces
used for simulating typewritten letters on hot metal and/or mechanical
typesetting equipment.  As opposed to typefaces resembling those of
typewriter manufacturers such as Remington and Smith, Reproducing
Typewriter was designed for better readability at smaller point sizes
and/or when reproduced by mimeograph machines and whatnots.

According to the American Type Founders [Line Book][linebook] of 1908:

> A specialty has also been made of Reproducing Typewriter faces, to
> meet the constantly increasing demand for facsimile letters in
> reduced size.

Its main differentiating characteristic from other contemporaneous
typewriter styles is that most serifs are shorter.  Where the serifs
of other typefaces might bleed together, the capital H, for example,
continues to look more like a capital H.

## Unicode Coverage

-   U+0000–U+007F Basic Latin: all printable ASCII characters.  No
    control characters, obviously.

-   U+0080–U+00FF Latin-1 Supplement: all printable ISO-8859-1
    characters.  Again, no control characters.

-   U+2500–U+257F Box Drawing in its entirety.

-   U+2580–U+259F Block Elements in its entirety.

-   U+2800–U+28FF Braille Patterns in its entirety.

### In Progress

-   A lot of extended Latin symbols.

-   Some Greek and Cyrillic symbols.  All Cyrillic used in Russia and
    Ukraine is complete.

-   Plenty of additional punctuation marks, mathematical operators,
    geometric shapes, and basic arrows from U+2000 on up.
    
## License

[SIL OFL 1.1](OFL.md)
    
## Footnotes

[linebook]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/American_Line_Type_Book/WadRAAAAYAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=1&pg=PP5&printsec=frontcover

Commit message:

add fonts section; minor other changes

README.md, after:

# Reproducing Typewriter

This is a digital revival of Reproducing Typewriter, a "typewriter"
monospace typeface designed to be readable at smaller point sizes from
over a century ago.  You may have seen this typeface used in the
product manual that shipped with Turbo Pascal 3.0.

This is the first digitally available verison of Reproducing
Typewriter.  It is a clean and somewhat* accurate reproduction, not a
"grungy" typeface like Trixie.  It is intended to provide an
aesthetic, but above all it is meant to be used for some of your
everyday needs, not just novelty projects.

## Original and Coding Variants

Reproducing Typewriter comes in two font families:

**Reproducing Typewriter** is to a great extent the original typeface.

**Reproducing Typewriter Code** makes the following changes:

-   The digits `0` and `1` are modified for disambiguity with the
    capital letter `O` and small letter `l`.

-   The period, comma, and other selected punctuation marks are made
    larger for better visibility.

## 18 Fonts

-   Font families:

    -   Reproducing Typewriter
    -   Reproducing Typewriter Code

-   Weights:

    -   Light
    -   Semi-Light
    -   Regular
    
    It's the same font, just with different stroke widths.

-   Aspects: (à la aspect ratios)

    -   Regular (10 pitch, or 10 characters per inch, same as Courier)
    -   Elite (12 pitch, same as Prestige)
    -   17 pitch (16.5 characters per inch, for printing 132 columns
        where Courier would give you 80.)
    
    It's the same font, just compressed to varying degrees.  The elite
    and 17 pitch variants are compressed just a little above 10/12 and
    10/16.5 to keep characters from unwantedly joining.
        
That's 2 × 3 × 3 = 18 fonts total.
    
## What is Reproducing Typewriter
    
Reproducing Typewriter is one of many early 20th-century typefaces
used for simulating typewritten letters on hot metal and/or mechanical
typesetting equipment.  As opposed to typefaces resembling those of
typewriter manufacturers such as Remington and Smith, Reproducing
Typewriter was designed for better readability at smaller point sizes
and/or when reproduced by mimeograph machines and whatnots.

According to the American Type Founders [Line Book][linebook] of 1908:

> A specialty has also been made of Reproducing Typewriter faces, to
> meet the constantly increasing demand for facsimile letters in
> reduced size.

Its main differentiating characteristic from other contemporaneous
typewriter styles is that most serifs are shorter.  Where the serifs
of other typefaces might bleed together, the capital H, for example,
continues to look more like a capital H.

## Unicode Coverage

-   U+0000–U+007F Basic Latin: all printable ASCII characters.  No
    control characters, obviously.

-   U+0080–U+00FF Latin-1 Supplement: all printable ISO-8859-1
    characters.  Again, no control characters.

-   U+2500–U+257F Box Drawing in its entirety.

-   U+2580–U+259F Block Elements in its entirety.

-   U+2800–U+28FF Braille Patterns in its entirety.

### In Progress

-   A lot of extended Latin symbols.

-   Some Greek and Cyrillic symbols.  All Cyrillic used in Russia and
    Ukraine is complete.

-   Plenty of additional punctuation marks, mathematical operators,
    geometric shapes, and basic arrows from U+2000 on up.
    
## License

[SIL OFL 1.1](OFL.md)
    
## Footnotes

[linebook]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/American_Line_Type_Book/WadRAAAAYAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=1&pg=PP5&printsec=frontcover
